[RayService][Doc] RayService troubleshooting handbook (#1221)
ray-project/kuberay: docs/guidance/rayservice-troubleshooting.md

# RayService troubleshooting

> RayService is a Custom Resource Definition (CRD) designed for Ray Serve. In KubeRay, it first creates a RayCluster and then proceeds to 

Reviewer: Should we say instead that "RayService is a Custom Resource"? It feels a bit weird to say it is a CRD, I think of it like there is a CRD for RayService, by RayService itself is a CR. LMK if this is accurate. Also, would it be helpful to link to the kubernetes Custom Resource docs?

Author: The relationship between CRD and CR is similar to class and instance.

> RayService is a Custom Resource Definition (CRD) designed for Ray Serve. In KubeRay, it first creates a RayCluster and then proceeds to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RayService is a Custom Resource Definition (CRD) designed for Ray Serve. In KubeRay, creating a RayService will first create a RayCluster and then
```

create Ray Serve applications once the RayCluster is ready. If the issue pertains to the data plane, specifically your Ray Serve scripts 
or Ray Serve configurations (`serveConfigV2`), troubleshooting may be challenging. This section provides some tips to help you debug these issues.

## Observability

### Method 1: Check KubeRay operator's logs for errors

```bash
kubectl logs $KUBERAY_OPERATOR_POD -n $YOUR_NAMESPACE | tee operator-log
```

The above command will redirect the operator's logs to a file called `operator-log`. You can then search for errors in the file.

### Method 2: Check RayService CR status

```bash
kubectl describe rayservice $RAYSERVICE_NAME -n $YOUR_NAMESPACE
```

You can check the status and events of the RayService CR to see if there are any errors.

### Method 3: Check logs of Ray Pods

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also check the Ray Serve logs directly by accessing the log files on the pods. These log files contain system level logs from the Serve controller and HTTP proxy as well as access logs and user-level logs. See [Ray Serve Logging](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/serve/production-guide/monitoring.html#ray-logging) and [Ray Logging](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-observability/user-guides/configure-logging.html#configure-logging) for more details.
```

```bash
kubectl exec -it $RAY_POD -n $YOUR_NAMESPACE -- bash

> # Check the logs under /tmp/ray/session_latest/logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Check the logs under /tmp/ray/session_latest/logs/serve/
```

```

### Method 4: Check Dashboard

```bash
kubectl port-forward $RAY_POD -n $YOUR_NAMESPACE --address 0.0.0.0 8265:8265
# Check $YOUR_IP:8265 in your browser

> ```

Reviewer: Could we add a screenshot here as an example? Another option is to link to https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-observability/getting-started.html#dash-serve-view, since that has a pretty detailed overview with example screenshots.

Author: Updated https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1221/commits/15838b5563ae5f1f9a0b10f71e32aad46329a0df.

### Common issues

#### Issue 1: Ray Serve script is incorrect.

We strongly recommend that you test your Ray Serve script locally or in a RayCluster before
deploying it to a RayService. [TODO: https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/issues/1176]

#### Issue 2: `serveConfigV2` is incorrect.

> For the sake of flexibility, we have set `serveConfigV2` as a string in the RayService CR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the sake of flexibility, we have set `serveConfigV2` as a YAML multi-line string in the RayService CR.
```

This implies that there is no strict type checking for the Ray Serve configurations in `serveConfigV2` field.
Some tips to help you debug the `serveConfigV2` field:

* Check [the documentation](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/serve/api/#put-api-serve-applications) for the schema about
the Ray Serve Multi-application API `PUT "/api/serve/applications/"`.

> * Unlike `serveConfig`, `serveConfigV2` adhere to the snake case naming convention. For example, `numReplicas` in `serveConfig` should be `num_replicas` in `serveConfigV2`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Unlike `serveConfig`, `serveConfigV2` adheres to the snake case naming convention. For example, `numReplicas` is used in `serveConfig`, while `num_replicas` is used in `serveConfigV2`. 
```

#### Issue 3: The Ray image does not include the required dependencies.

> You have two options to resolve this issue:

Reviewer: Would it be helpful here (and in the other issues where this may be relevant) to show an example of a sign/error that would help indicate to the user that this is the exact issue they are running into?

For instance, for the image not having the required dependencies, they will likely see `DEPLOY_FAILED` as the application status when using `kubectl describe rayservice`, and the status message should indicate that Serve failed to load the application because of some dependency issue.

Author: I added two examples for dependency issues.

* Build your own Ray image with the required dependencies.
* Specify the required dependencies via `runtime_env` in `serveConfigV2` field.
  * For example, the MobileNet example requires `python-multipart`, which is not included in the Ray image `rayproject/ray-ml:2.5.0`.
Therefore, the YAML file includes `python-multipart` in the runtime environment. For more details, refer to [the MobileNet example](mobilenet-rayservice.md).

#### Issue 4: Incorrect `import_path`.

> The format of the `import_path` is not very straightforward. You can refer to [the documentation](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/serve/api/doc/ray.serve.schema.ServeApplicationSchema.html#ray.serve.schema.ServeApplicationSchema.import_path) for more details.

Reviewer: Perhaps it'd be best not to say the format of import_path is not very straightforward. We can add a brief description instead?

Author: Updated https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1221/commits/15838b5563ae5f1f9a0b10f71e32aad46329a0df.
